---
title: "Observability"
linkTitle: "Observability"
weight: 60
description: >
  Add obvervability and monitorization to your projects.
---

## Logs

Runtimes also have a log console emmbeded within them, you can access the console by clicking the `>_` icon at the top right corner of your desired workflow.

Runners will log some useful information as well as handling and reporting errors.  
You can pass down any info you desire to the logger from your nodes. To do so, you have to use the `simplelogger` that comes inside the handler's context as an attribute called `Logger`.

Here goes a quick example written in GoLang, this is the way we could log everytime our handler is invoked.

`ctx.Logger.Info("[handler invoked]")`

Info given to the logger in the form of a string will later on be added some metadata, such as the workflow and node from where it comes and the time the log was created.

This is how a log console looks like.

{{< imgproc log_example Resize "1200x" />}}

## Functional Metrics

Metrics generated by nodes are saved through an *InfluxDB* client then displayed by a *Chronograf* instance.

If you are not familiar with *InfluxDB* and *Flux* queries, we recomend that you refer to our training documentation uploaded in our google drive regarding the usage and grood practices of *InfluxDB*.

### InfluxDB

KRE containerizes and deploys an InfluxDB image responsible for the handling and usage of metrics.  
This DB is accessed by the nodes through a client, this client is passed down to the nodes inside the handler's context, one of the handler's calling arguments.

### Chronograf

A Chronograf image will also be containerized and deployed by KRE. Chronograf will consume data from the influxDB through *Flux* queries then display it in dashboards.

Several dashboards can be contained within Chronograf, one for each project for example.

#### Dashboards

Metrics need context and form, otherwise they would just be rows of data with no meaning.
Dashboards contain several cells, each will display filtered data by a given visualization format, giving data context and form. A dashboard can contain several cells of different size, thematic and purpose.

Cells are calculated in two steps. The first one being a *Flux* query that retrieves, filters and processes data, then this data will be given a display format, whether it be a table, a line graph or a counter.  
It is important to choose for the cell a proper and fitting visual format so data can have a proper meaning. Data can also be grouped by tags so several contexts can be displayed in the same cell.

Here is an example of a complete dashboard from our training repo.

{{< imgproc chronograf_dashboard_example Resize "1200x" />}}
